So,
now that we've covered the core concepts that you
need to launch an EC2 instance,
we're actually going to dive into the console and launch an instance ourselves.
Now, I do want to call‑out here, you need to understand EC2 for the exam.
You don't necessarily need to know how to launch an instance yourself,
although I think this will be valuable in understanding the concepts
that have already been presented within this module.
So here's what we're going to do.
We're, first, going to launch a new EC2 instance
based on an AMI provided by AWS.
And then, we're going to be exploring the launch wizard in
the AWS Console. We'll then be configuring an EC2 instance
to be used as a web server.
And finally, we will cover how you terminate an EC2 instance once you're done.
So, I'm here within the AWS Console. I've already logged in as my user and here,
from the search box, I'm going to search for EC2. I'm now going to click on EC2,
and from here I can now see my dashboard for EC2 which will list all of my
running instances as well as many of the other types of information that are
contained within this dashboard.
Now,
the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to scroll down, I'm
going to go to the option to launch an instance,
and from here we're going to click on Launch Instance.
Now, we get a chance here to choose an AMI.
Now, as I mentioned, there are several that are provided by AWS.
There also are some that are provided by the community, and then there
are some that are provided in the AWS marketplace,
which those could charge an extra fee for using those AMIs.
We also can see here that there's an option for my AMIs because,
as I mentioned,
we can actually create our own AMIs based off of our own customizations.
In this case, I'm going to choose the Amazon Linux 2 AMI.
So I'm going to select this first one. And now we get an
option to go in and select our instance type.
Now, we've talked a lot about instance types, and if we were to
scroll down, this list is pretty long, and we can go all the way
from general purpose into commute storage, memory optimized, and
accelerated computing.
For now, though, since we're just interested in testing this out,
we're going to use a t2.micro instance type, and part of
the reason that we're going to use that is because that is
free until you're eligible.
So if this is a new AWS account for you,
you should be able to run this within the free tier
and not incur charges in doing so.
However,
I do want to quickly remind you that if you leave these instances up and
running there will be charges associated with them.
Make sure that you've set up the billing alarm that we guided you
through in the previous course within this path.
So next, I'm going to hit the Next option to Configure Instance Details.
Now, from here, I'm telling it to only launch one instance.
That's all that we need. Now, the next step is we have an
option here for our purchasing option.
So I do have the option here to make this a Spot instance or to
at least request a Spot instance. However,
I'm not going to do that here,
and we're going to choose to simply launch an On‑Demand instance.
Now, we haven't yet talked about VPCs, and so I'm going to leave these options
here as the default values for both the network in the subnet, but I do want to
switch Auto‑assign Public IP to be Enable. And now we can look here that we have
some other values for things that we haven't covered yet, but I'm now going to
navigate down to the bottom,
and I'm going to go to the section for Advanced Details.
Now, here within this section we have something called User data,
and this is basically just commands that the server will run when it starts.
And so I'm going to paste in a value here that will basically have it
install a web server and then start that web server.
And if all of this works correctly, when we're done we should be able to go
and see the test page for that web server up and running.
So let's go ahead and hit Next and add storage.
So here, we do have an EBS volume that we're going to be leveraging,
and we could choose to add additional storage if we wanted to onto this server.
Now we don't need to, and so because of that,
I'm not going to change anything on this screen, but just know
that you can. And we'll talk more about EBS later, but we even
have the option here to go in and change the type of volume that
we're using, in this case, we're just going to keep it as a General Purpose SSD,
which is known as a gp2. Next,
we could go through here and add tags, so I could go in and add a tag here.
We could say here that this is just a test server, and so if
we used that purpose tag across everything,
we could note how much of our charges are associated with,
for example, test versus production.
We could change a lot of different things on that,
but in this case we'll keep that tag in place, and next,
we'll go in and configure the security group.
Now, this is something else that we haven't covered in depth yet, but we
will be covering more later on within this course.
But I need to do two things here.
First of all,
currently any IP address, so any user, could go in an attempt to log into the
server to manage it, and we don't want that to be the case.
And fortunately, AWS provides an easy way to limit access.
At this point,
I'm just going to say my IP, so only my IP address, right now, can actually go
in to manage the server. But I need to add one more rule.
As I mentioned,
we want to set up a web server. Now, the type of communication
that a web server has is called HTTP, so I'm going to select HTTP,
here on the left. If we leave this at the default value where it
says 0.0.0.0/0, in this case,
what that's saying is is that anyone can access the
web information from this server, and that's what we want.
Now that we have that in place, we're going to hit Review and Launch,
and then we will look at the summary page here.
Everything looks good, and we'll just hit Launch.
Now, it's going to ask us here to create a key pair,
and if you haven't done that yet, you will need to do it.
In this case, this is what will allow you to actually sign in to this server,
utilizing this key pair.
Now,
we're not going to be signing into this server to administer it. But
you still will need to create a key pair, then we'll need to
acknowledge that we have access to that key pair,
and then we can finalize the launch process.
Now, from here,
it's telling us that our instance is launching, so
congratulations, you have now launched an instance in EC2, so
you've launched a web server in the cloud.
Now it's going to take in a minute to get started, but what we can
do is we can click on this little value here.
This is the identifier for our EC2 instance,
and it will let us know right now that it is currently
pending, so it is going through the launching process. So
we'll give this just a minute to complete.
So now we can see that our instance is currently set to be running,
and so we should be able to access it now.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to look at the section down
here that gives the information for this instance, and there will
be a section called Public DNS.
I'm going to click on this to copy it to the clipboard,
and then I'm going to go up here and I'm going to open up a new tab in
the browser and I'm going to paste that value in.
I'm going to hit Enter and you can now see that we do indeed see our test page.
This means that you have properly configured a web server to be up and
running in the cloud, so this is what we want to see.
However, we just don't want to leave an instance running if we don't need it.
So I'm going to go in here and I'm going to be sure that my instance is
selected, and then from here we're going to go under Actions,
and then we're going to go to Instance State and we're going to go to Terminate.
Now here, this is going to let us know that the EBS volume will
be deleted when we delete the instance, and this is actually
what we want. So we can now hit Yes, Terminate, and by doing so,
we now have shut down our instance and it'll take it a little
bit to shut down and be fully terminated.
But let's walk through what we've done here.
We've been able to go in through the console,
launch a new EC2 instance from an AWS provided AMI.
We have then been able to go in and configure it as an
On‑Demand instance to be a web server, and then we've
launched it, we've seen that it worked, and now we have terminated our instance. So congratulations on firing up and spinning down your first server on EC2.